----------------------------------------------------
CHAPTER 8 - ADVANCED KEYBOARD TRICKS
----------------------------------------------------

- bash uses a library called 'Readline' to implement command-line editing.  There are many keyboard
    shortcuts available.



- Cursor Movement Keys

    Ctrl-a       Move cursor to the beginning of the line.
    Ctrl-e       Move cursor to the end of the line.
    Ctrl-f       Move cursor forward one character; same as the right arrow key.
    Ctrl-b       Move cursor backward one character; same as the left arrow key.
    Alt-f        Move cursor forward one word.
    Alt-b        Move cursor backward one word.
    Ctrl-l       Clear the screen and move the cursor to the top-left corner. The clear command does 
                   the same thing.



- Text Modification Keys

    Ctrl-d       Delete the character at the cursor location.
    Ctrl-t       Transpose (exchange) the character at the cursor location with the one preceding it.
    Alt-t        Transpose the word at the cursor location with the one preceding it.
    Alt-l        Convert the characters from the cursor location to the end of the word to lowercase.
    Alt-u        Convert the characters from the cursor location to the end of the word to uppercase.



- Cutting and Pasting (Killing and Yanking) Text Keys

    Ctrl-k       Kill text from the cursor location to the end of line.
    Ctrl-u       Kill text from the cursor location to the beginning of the line.
    Alt-d        Kill text from the cursor location to the end of the current word.
    Alt-Backspace  Kill text from the cursor location to the beginning of the current word. If the cursor 
                     is at the beginning of a word, kill the previous word.
    Ctrl-y       Yank text from the kill-ring and insert it at the cursor location.



- Bash History

    - Bash history is stored in the '.bash_history' file.


    # View history
    $ history | less


    # Search history
    $ history | grep /usr/bin

    88  ls -l /usr/bin > ls-output.txt


    # Expand history line #88
    $ !88



- History Commands

    Ctrl-p       Move to the previous history entry. This is the same action as the uparrow.
    Ctrl-n       Move to the next history entry. This is the same action as the down arrow.
    Alt-<        Move to the beginning (top) of the history list.
    Alt->        Move to the end (bottom) of the history list, i.e., the current command line.
    Ctrl-r       Reverse incremental search. This searches incrementally from the current command line 
                   up the history list.
    Alt-p        Reverse search, nonincremental. With this key, type in the search string and press enter
                   before the search is performed.
    Alt-n        Forward search, nonincremental.
    Ctrl-o       Execute the current item in the history list and advance to the next one. This is handy 
                   if we are trying to re-execute a sequence of commands in the history list.



- History Expansion Commands

    !!           Repeat the last command. It is probably easier to press up arrow and enter.
    !number      Repeat history list item number.
    !string      Repeat last history list item starting with string. 
    !?string     Repeat last history list item containing string.



- The 'script' Command

    Most Linux distributions have a 'script' command that can be used to record an entire shell session
      and store it in a file.

    # Save the entire shell session
    $ script session.txt